 Niklaus Wirth, a Swiss computer scientist, wrote a book in 1976 titled Algorithms + Data Structures = 
Programs.

40+ years later, that equation still holds true. That’s why software engineering candidates have to demonstrate their 
understanding of data structures along with their applications.

Almost all problems require the candidate to demonstrate a deep understanding of data structures. It doesn’t matter 
whether you have just graduated (from a university or coding bootcamp), or you have decades of experience.

Sometimes interview questions explicitly mention a data structure, for example, “given a binary tree.” Other times 
it’s implicit, like “we want to track the number of books associated with each author.”

Learning data structures is essential even if you’re just trying to get better at your current job. Let’s start with 
understanding the basics.

What is a Data Structure?
Simply put, a data structure is a container that stores data in a specific layout. This “layout” allows a data 
structure to be efficient in some operations and inefficient in others. Your goal is to understand data structures 
so that you can pick the data structure that’s most optimal for the problem at hand.

Why do we need Data Structures?
As data structures are used to store data in an organized form, and since data is the most crucial entity in computer 
science, the true worth of data structures is clear.

No matter what problem are you solving, in one way or another you have to deal with data — whether it’s an employee’s 
salary, stock prices, a grocery list, or even a simple telephone directory.

Based on different scenarios, data needs to be stored in a specific format. We have a handful of data structures that 
cover our need to store data in different formats.

Commonly used Data Structures
Let’s first list the most commonly used data structures, and then we’ll cover them one by one:

Arrays
Stacks
Queues
Linked Lists
Trees
Graphs
Tries (they are effectively trees, but it’s still good to call them out separately).
Hash Tables
Arrays
An array is the simplest and most widely used data structure. Other data structures like stacks and queues are derived
from arrays.

Here’s an image of a simple array of size 4, containing elements (1, 2, 3 and 4).