What is PostgreSQL – Introduction

Brief History of PostgreSQL:
PostgreSQL also known as Postgres, was developed by Michael Stonebraker of the University of California, Berkley.
   It started as the Ingres Project and later evolved into Postgresql as we know today. In the year 1982, Michael
   Stonebraker started a post-Ingres project to address the problems with contemporary database systems. He was
   awarded the Turing Award in the year 2014 for the projects and techniques pioneered in them.

The POSTGRES project aimed at adding the fewest features like the ability to define various data types and to fully
     describe relationships – something used widely, but maintained completely by the end-user. POSTGRES used various
     ideas of Ingres, but had its unique source code.

The initial version of PostgreSQL was designed to run on UNIX-like platforms. However, it was then evolved to be mobile
      so that it could run on other platforms such as Mac OS X, Solaris, and Windows.

What is PostgreSQL?
PostgreSQL is one of the most advanced general-purpose object-relational database management system and is open-source.
   Being an open-source software, its source code is available under PostgreSQL license, a liberal open source license.
   Anyone with the right skills is free to use, modify, and distribute PostgreSQL in any form. As it is highly stable,
   very low effort is required to maintain this DBMS.


Why PostgreSQL is best for you?
The key features that make PostgreSQL a reliable and user-friendly are listed below:

User-defined types
Table inheritance
Sophisticated locking mechanism
Foreign key referential integrity
Views, rules, subquery
Nested transactions (save points)
Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)
Asynchronous replication
Native Microsoft Windows Server version
Tablespace
Point-in-time recovery
Why PostgreSQL is unique in itself?
Below is the list of features that makes PostgreSQL stand-out among other DBMS:

The multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) feature was first implemented by PostgreSQL.
Custom functions developed in languages like C/C++, Python, Java, etc can be added to PostgreSQL.
As PostgreSQL is designed to be extensible, one can define their own data types, index types, functional languages, etc.
If one intends to remove any part of the system, one can always develop a custom plugin to enhance it to meet their
   specific requirements.
Large Scale users of PostgreSQL
A number of companies have built products and solutions using PostgreSQL. Few of those companies are Apple, Fujitsu,
   Red Hat, Cisco, Juniper Network, etc.


Install PostgreSQL on Windows
Last Updated : 05 Oct, 2021
This is a step-by-step guide to install PostgreSQL on a windows machine. Since PostgreSQL version 8.0, a window
   installer is available to make the installation process fairly easier.
We will be installing PostgreSQL version 11.3 on Windows 10 in this article.

There are three crucial steps for the installation of PostgreSQL as follows:

Download PostgreSQL installer for Windows

Install PostgreSQL

Verify the installation

Downloading PostgreSQL Installer for Windows
You can download the latest stable PostgreSQL Installer specific to your Windows by clicking here


Installing the PostgreSQL installer
After downloading the installer double click on it and follow the below steps:

Step 1: Click the Next button





Step 2: Choose the installation folder, where you want PostgreSQL to be installed, and click on Next.


Step 3: Select the components as per your requirement to install and click the Next button.


Step 4: Select the database directory where you want to store the data an click on Next.


Step 5: Set the password for the database superuser (Postgres)


Step 6: Set the port for PostgreSQL. Make sure that no other applications are using this port. If unsure leave it to
    its default (5432) and click on Next.


Step 7: Choose the default locale used by the database and click the Next button.


Step 8: Click the Next button to start the installation.


Wait for the installation to complete, it might take a few minutes.


Step 9: Click the Finish button to complete the PostgreSQL installation.


Verifying the Installation of PostgreSQL
There are a couple of ways to verify the installation of PostgreSQL like connecting to the database server using some
    client applications like pgAdmin or psql.
The quickest way though is to use the psql shell. For that follow the below steps:


Step 1: Search for the psql shell in the windows search bar and open it.


Step 2: Enter all the necessary information like the server, database, port, username, and
password and press Enter.


Step 3: Use the command SELECT version(); you will see the following result:
